Many people are interested in data crawling to collect data.
In fact, in cases where an
official API is provided directly by a service like YouTube, it is
more stable and
easy to obtain accurate data by utilizing the official API for data crawling.
Make helps you
easily connect by utilizing the API module,
but this
module is not supported for all APIs.
So today, we will
look at how to collect all video data on a YouTube channel for free without coding by utilizing the official YouTube API in Make. If you
want to collect YouTube data for free or
want to use the API of another service that does not provide a module in Make, I recommend
watching the video until the end and
applying it to your own system.
Previously, I introduced a method to collect
YouTube data by utilizing the surve API file.
These
services are not provided directly by YouTube,
but rather by a third party that
collects YouTube data on your behalf and provides it in the form of an API.
Here, the API is
simply an
official manual that defines how we communicate with a service.
So if you
follow this manual, you can
read, create, update, or
delete data. In particular,
when collecting data, you can
collect and store data by utilizing the API method called gay.
Services like YouTube  The official API is also
provided free of charge to general users, so if you
use this API, you can
collect and use data for free within the allocated quota.
Unless you collect a huge amount of data that exceeds the quota, it is more stable and efficient to use this official API than the web crawling method. The
API provided by YouTube is largely
divided into two types. First, if you
access YouTube,
there is public data that anyone can check, and private data that
only those who operate or manage the channel can see.
Public
data can be accessed with YouTube Data API Version
3.
If you use this, there is public data on the channel. If
we go to a specific channel on YouTube, we can check the
video list, the title, the number of views, the
number of comments, and the content of the comments.
So the
API that allows you to access such information is
YouTube Data API Version 3.
On the other hand, private data can be accessed using the YouTube
Analytics API, YouTube Reporting API. If you use this
YouTube Analytics API, there are indicators that
only the channel owner or manager
can see. The
number of shares of the video, the viewing time, the increase or decrease in the number of subscribers,
and now you can cut the number of views by period and
see them again. So
if you want to see such information, you can actually see it
on the channel.  If you have permission, you can use this YouTube
Analytics API to
collect information in YouTube Studio.
Since the information provided by the YouTube API is so vast, these APIs are usually
categorized according to the classification of the information they provide, called endpoints, and a
separate address that can be accessed for each category is specified.
So that's why they're now
called endpoints. If you look at this public
data YouTube data API version
3, the endpoints are divided into channels, playlist
items, videos, Search,
com, threads, and comments.
As you can see from this keyword, if it's channel information, you
have to find it in the channel. Playlist information is a
playlist item, and video information is a
video. It provides data by dividing it into these categories.
Today,
among these various APIs, we'll look at how to collect basic information and indicators of videos by
utilizing YouTube data API version 3, which is the most widely available, and using points, chs, playlist
items, videos, and Search.
Do you like pop music?
I watched
Baby Monster's audition program, which debuted last year,
as YouTube content and cheered them on enthusiastically and even
went to their concert recently.
These days, K-pop groups are using
YouTube content in addition to songs and performances.  I
think building a fandom and communicating with fans is important.
So today, I'm going to
use the official YouTube API in Make to collect video data from the
official YouTube channel of Baby Monster, which I like. I
think it would be good if you also choose a YouTube channel you like and follow along to collect data. I'll attach the sheet structure
to the video description.
First, if you get YouTube channel data, you
need to know the channel ID value of the channel. You can actually get this with API
Pro, but since there are only a few
channels, it's easier to just collect it manually.
So I'm
going to tell you how to manually check the ID of a YouTube channel. This
is a good tip. These days, when you
go to a YouTube channel, the channel ID
doesn't appear right away.
Instead, a
handle related to the channel name, such as @baby monst, appears.
So you ca
n't check the channel ID right here. At this time, you can
go to a video.
So after you go to a video,
there's an information icon in the video description tab. Go to the information icon and click on it.
Then, if you look above, the
URL has changed. Now, the channel ID
is displayed instead.
That value that starts with "yushi" is the channel
ID. I'll put it in so that I
can use it later.  I
created a separate worksheet called Public Video List and
entered various column values ​​in it. So
now I've organized the information I want to get when I go into the Baby Monster channel and
collect data. It's going to be
brought in like this: Channel ID, Channel name, Subscribers, Video ID, Upload date, Video title, Video length, Video link, Thumbnail link, Video tag, Category ID, Video description, Views, Comments, Likes.
So basically, I've organized all the
information we usually want to get from the channel
into columns like this.
Now, let's
actually create a scenario in Make.
Scenario name First, Baby
Monster YouTube data collection. Let's
do this. Now, we
have to get channel data.
When collecting data in a sheet like this and updating it, it's a good idea to check for duplicate data
in advance.
So
from the beginning, we're
going to create it with that in mind. We'll bring in the range
vales sheet first.
Select the sheet like this. Then,
what criteria are you going to use to check for duplicate values? Now, we
have to check for video duplication, so we have to
use this video ID value.
So based on the video ID value, let's
do D2.  Let's check up to d1 1000.
And
there's a header. I'll
set the header as d1 man. I'll just list the values ​​of this D column.
Okay, let's save it and
run it.
Right now, there are no values, so let's just set it
to 0. Later, when some values
accumulate here, we'll bring them all. But we'll bring them in
as bundles each now.
But
we want to merge them into one and compare them.
That's because later,
when we actually bring in the video values ​​to update the data through the API, we have to
compare whether the values ​​already exist in the sheet.
So, we'll merge
all the video ID values ​​that will be the comparison group into one so that we
can compare them at once.
To do that, we'll
use array aggregate. As you can see here,
we've brought in the video ID values. So we'll
select this and merge it into one.
And we'll specify the module name.
Check for duplicate videos. Save the video list.
Now, we've
brought in all the values ​​for checking for duplicate videos and merged them.
And now, since
we have to use the API based on the channel ID, let's
save the channel ID value.
Set multiple
variables.  Select it,
and here
is the value we brought, right? Channel ID. Some of
you
may not be fans of Baby Monster, so you can
get the channel ID of your favorite channel and
put it in the value here.
Put it in like this. Now,
based on this channel ID, we need to use the official YouTube
API to get the video information.
But this can't be done all at once,
as I explained earlier, because it's
divided into several endpoints.
So
when you use the official API in this way, you need to check
which endpoint to
access and which information to get step by step while looking at the official API document.
So
let's do that. We need to access YouTube Data API
Version 3.
So if you type YouTube Data API Version
3 into Google, YouTube
Data API will appear right away.
So you can go there.
When you go in and check this API document, you can usually
check most of the information by going to the Reference tab.
We want to collect all the
video information for that channel based on the channel ID.
So
first, since we want to collect video information, if you
look on the left here, there are
several endpoints.  It's all divided.
So among these,
since Dios seems to have video information, let's
click on this and
press Overview to check the information.
First, if you look here, it explains that you can get information on
matching videos in a list format among the methods.
So you
can see that it would be good to use the list method among the methods.
And if you look at the resource here, you
can see how the values ​​are output from the video endpoint. If you
look here, it
seems to be the published upload date, channel ID, title, video
description, and such values.
And if you look below, it gives you the number of views,
likes, and comments.
So you can see that
most of the video information we want is included here.
In fact,
since I know how YouTube data is structured, I
explained it right away after looking at this representation, but it might
not be familiar at first.
So, below here, it says F, and it explains
what each key value
means.
So you can check it by looking at this.
Now,
if you want to get a list of videos, it would
be good to take a closer look at this list method. Let's take a look at the
list. If you go into the list,
first of all, here is a common use
case.  Here's how it's mainly
used. If you look here, it
says List by Video ID List by mti Video IDS. So you
can see that if you know the ID of the video, you can extract the video information.
But we
only have the channel ID now. But here, you
can see that the video ID is needed to get the video information.
Then, what we can think about is that we can't get the
video information right away with the channel ID now. If we
use this video endpoint, we need to extract the video ID
separately.
So now, you can look for
where to get the video ID
in another endpoint.
For example, let's
go into this search. If you go into the search, you
can see that the video ID values ​​are output like this in the search. And if you go to the list, it's
called List my video. If you
look at the optional parameter,
there's a channel ID value. So you can see that you can
input the channel ID value and check the video ID.
But the
important thing here is that if you look at the top, it says Quarter
Impact, so the quarter cost is in
units.
If you go into the quarter cost, the quarter that we can use the API
costs 10,000 units per day.
But if it's 100, it's a pretty big cost. So
In fact, you can extract the video ID right away by using the search API, but the
cost is too high. This is an
API that can check which videos are appearing on YouTube with keywords, so the cost is a bit high.
So we will try to find another way to extract
only the video ID more efficiently and at a lower cost.
Then, another thing you can think about
is the playlist. So, you can
get another video from a playlist item. If you
look here, the
video ID is in the content detail.
Then, knowing the playlist item,
we can configure a playlist on the YouTube channel.
Then, if we
know the ID value of the configured playlist, we
can extract the video ID belonging to it.
However, there may be
videos for which we have not specified a playlist.
However, YouTube
basically groups
all uploaded videos
into one default playlist.
So
if we know the ID of the default playlist, we can extract all the
video ID values ​​through the playlist item.
Then, we need to be able to get
the default playlist ID
value first.
Where can we get that?  This can be
seen as a property of the channel.
So let's go to the channel tab.
Then, if we check the resource presentation in the channel tab,
this time, let's go to the description tab. If we
look here, there
is content details. Related
playlist upload. So, it's telling us the playlist ID value
corresponding to all the videos uploaded to this channel.
So now, what we
can do is, we'll use the channels endpoint to
get the basic playlist ID that contains all the uploaded videos.
Then, we can
use the playlist item to get the
video ID values ​​of all the videos in that playlist, that is, all the videos on the channel.
Then,
after getting the video ID, we can
use the videos endpoint to get the video information.
And if you configure it like this, the
search cost was 100 units, but the
channels list is 1 unit and the
playlist ice also costs 1
unit. So, even though we
could have solved it with one search, we divided it into
two, channels playlist items, but the
actual cost is much cheaper.
So now, let's set up the channels endpoint.
In Make, we're using an API that is no longer supported as a module.
When you want, you
can select the http module.
This is access to public data.
So, you don't need a separate authentication process. You can
just use the API key. Just
select the maker request module.
And if you
go into the URL list here, you can
copy and paste the endpoint URL.
Then, you
will access the channel endpoint. And
the method should be gay to
read the data. In addition, you
need to make some settings.
What is this header? When we do an http request
API code, we use this header when we need to
attach additional information related to authentication.
Right now, we said that there is no such thing in public data.
So, you can just leave this blank.
Then, in this query
string, enter the parameter values ​​that we want to include when we make a request.
For example, you need to
enter the API key value to authenticate who is using it.
In addition, you need to
enter the criteria for filtering and the
values ​​you want to receive
in the request value. You can
put those in the query string.  If you
think about it, the first
thing you need to enter is the API key.
When you enter the API key, YouTube
just names it as a key in lowercase letters and
enters the key value here. However, we have
not created a separate API key yet.
So I will first create an API key and
bring it here.
When you create an API key, go to the console
cloud.google.com and
log in to Google. If you
do not have a project,
click the button above project selection and create a new project.
Create it and
specify it. Then, in the menu bar, there
is something called API and services.
Select this. When you
select it and enter, there
is an option called user authentication information.
Select the menu. Then, there
is an API key here. Click Create user authentication information at the top and
select the API key to create it. Then, the
key value is created like this.
Copy this and enter it in Make.
By the way, the API key is like a password,
so you need to be careful not to leak it to the outside.
Mine
was leaked, but I will discard it right after using it.
So instead of my API key,
create and use your API key.
I
will enter it like this. And now, what
values ​​are you going to receive?  You
have to specify it. If you go into the document, you will see that
there is a parameter part that is required. This part specifies which attribute values ​​to
receive.
So, here, we just have to
specify the information we need. So,
what are we going to get here? Let's
go into the overview and check the list.
First, let's just get the ID value and the basic ID value
as a reference.
What we want
is subscriber information. Subscriber information
is in the status text of the subscriber count. So, you have to put the status text in.
And if you
look below, what we want is the playlist ID. It will be in the
relay playlist
here. So, it's the
content details. So, you can get this.
When you check this separately, the
playlist ID
is in the list here.
So, we will get three things: content details,
statistics, and ID.
So, we will
get three values: part, ID, statistics, and content details. Next, we
have to specify the channel ID. So, we will
get the value for that channel.  Then let's take a look at
how to filter the channel ID. If you
look at the list, you can
filter the channel by the value called ID.
Enter the name as the ID and
we have collected the channel ID value in advance.
Let's map this. And let's set the path response
to yes. It's just to
distinguish it for better use. Let's do this and
just specify the name and
run it. We
want to get the playlist ID.
If you look at the number of subscribers and the output, this is the playlist ID in the content details. We
got the ID correctly. And you
can see that the number of subscribers is also being brought in. It
also tells you the number of videos. There
are 427 videos. Now that we've
got the playlist ID, we need to
get the video ID value in the playlist.
Let's do that right away. We've already created one.
Since we've created an http module,
let's copy and paste this. We'll just change the module name. We're
getting the video ID. The
endpoint will be different. The endpoint is
from the playlist items side. So go to the
playlist items A
list and copy this and put it in.
And the key will be the same.  You can just
write it, and then you need to input the part and the
playlist ID,
right? Let's check the
document to see how to set the filtering values. You
can use the part as it is, but here, you
need to specify the value to get what values.
Let's see what we want to get now. The video ID
value is, ah, the video ID value. It's
in the content details. Then, you can
get the content details.
Next, let's check how to filter the ID
in the list method. If you
look at the filter here,
there's something called a playlist ID. You can specify it with this.
So this time, the name is
playlist. Here, we need to specify the
playlist ID that we've already extracted. Yes,
upload. This is the playlist ID. If you
specify this, you
can now extract the video ID. And
pass the resp. Oh, and if you
look here, it's called Max Lee, and it goes
from 0 to 50, so you can
get up to 50 video IDs at a time. The
default is five. If you
don't enter anything, you'll only
get five, and if you enter 50, you'll get them all at once.  You
can get up to 50, so it would be
better to get the maximum. Let's
put 50 as max results. Okay.
Then, let's do this and
run it again. Then,
like this, we're listing all the video ID values ​​in one bundle
by dividing them into items.
But, instead of one bundle, we're going to
divide this into multiple bundles to
make it easier to access each video ID.
To do that, we can use an iterator in the flow control to
distinguish them. The
video ID is now in the items,
so let's
select the items array and distinguish them.
And after dividing them,
let's run it again.
Then, the iterator ES has divided all the
video information that contains each video ID
into bundles. So, if we
divide it like this, we can now
access each of these video ID values.
Then, we'll access them all and
merge them into one text with commas. That's because
when we looked at the official API earlier,
when listing video information in the video, we
can access multiple IDs with commas instead of just one ID.  We
did it, so we don't forget several of them.
If we
make API calls for each video information by video ID, we'll have to
use the API 50 times to get 50 videos. Of course, that'll
cost more. But if we can combine these at once and
request them, we
can get 50 at once. So
we'll set it up like that. Then we'll have to
combine the ID values, so
we know about the text ligator. We'll
use this to get the iterator has value.
What do we get?
Specify the video ID value, and
then specify the row separator as a comma.
And
if there's no video ID, we
'll set it to stop. You can
save it like this. Then,
this becomes a list of video IDs. And
before creating the list, we checked for duplicate videos
in the sheet, so we've already
loaded the updated video ID values. We'll
use that to filter here. We
'll check for duplicate content. And using the map, the
video ID log in the previously imported laser array
is 0. When we did it with the video ID,
on the left.  It will say 0 in the row.
Then, you can enter the value 0.
Then, there is an attribute called video ID in the array, and the
values ​​included here are extracted and made into a single array.
Then,
all the video IDs included in the sheet are
listed here.
This is now set to pass the filter only if the
newly extracted video ID value is
not included in this array in the array operator. The ones that
passed are now merged into one.
After merging with this, you
can now get the video information from the video endpoint with an http request. Before you
get it, you will
put a sleep mode. Since we are going to
do the API code multiple times in a row, in
case we hit the limit,
turn on the sleep module tools sleep module and
delay it for about 3 seconds.
Then, select http again by
holding down shift and dragging to the left, and then
copy and
paste it here. This time, you
need to get the video information. Then,
go to the video endpoint, copy the URL,
change it, use the same key, and
set which part to get.
Here, you can see the resource section and the
petit below. What is it?
You can specify if it's necessary. Well, even if you
look at it, it looks like ID, snippet, content
detail, and statistics below.
I think it'll be fine to bring it like this. I'll put it in like that.
And
this time, it's not a playlist ID. I have to put in the video ID value. If you go
to the
video ID list, you have to check the filter. I'll
put the video ID value as the ID. I'll say ID, and the video
ID is this text aggregator.
Put this text in. There's
no need for Max Lit.
Anyway, since we're putting 50 here and
making a request at once,
all 50 values ​​will come out. So, I've
set up the API to bring in the video information like this.
I'll test it again. I
gave it a short delay with sleep. If you look at the data, you can see that the
items are divided like this and the information is brought in well. It's
brought in well like this. But even now, it's in
one bundle
like this. There's a collection under the items.
So, we
have to update this on the sheet.
In order to do that, it's better to split the information. I'll
use the iterator again. It's an item. I
'll split it into items.
Then, just like I divided it in the front,
Bird.  It will be divided again.
Then, you can update the divided information by
airing it on the sheet like this. There
is a lot of video information now.
Then, if you update it by row like this, if you
update 400, there
will be 400 operations that appear in a circle on the right. Then,
since all of this is a cost in Make, it is
better to collect this data at once and do a bulk update instead of updating it by row.
To do a bulk update, select the ray ligator and then the
rows in the bulk.
This is how you
set up the bulk update.
Copy and paste the sheet name to
find the ID value. Then,
turn off the sheet name map and you can select it.
Video list column range
loss. We created an array aggregate in front,
so you can
input the array value.
This is where you update the sheet.
Then, you
just need to set up the array aggregate. You
can receive the iterator value that you divided in front and now you can combine the information.
We attached the sheet module bulk add to the structure type. If you
attach it, here.
Google Sheet will appear in the structure type. You can
connect this. Then, there
is a value here. You
can map each value to the value by column. You can
map how you want to insert it. If there are
multiple columns, turn it on like this and
start inserting from number 1.
Then, what is number 1? The first
column here is the channel ID. Then, the first column will
be the channel ID.
In that channel ID, you need to insert the iterator has channel
ID value. Yes, I
will insert it like this. The
second is the channel
title. The scriber scribe
count is what we received before.
When getting the playlist ID value from the channel,
there is a scribe count in statistics a.
Let's insert this. The fourth is the video
ID. The video ID again
has the iterator ID value. The
fifth is the bleed date. If you
look at the value now, it has a format where the time value is included.
However, since we
just want to get the value, we
will modify the format by using the formula called for date. Format
date like this and get the value like this.  The
sixth is the
video title. I'll map it all like this. I'll
map the easy ones first and
explain the rest. Thumbnail URL.
Next, for the tag, you can put this in. You
have to extract this by mapping the value below. It's row 1, right? Set it to 1. I
'll extract all the lists with tags attached below.
Next, I'll set the category ID, description,
views, comments, and likes.
Next, I'll put in the video link and video length. For the
video link, in the
case of YouTube, use https,
YouTube, and then a slash. Then, if you
put in the video ID,
this is a short URL. This
can create a URL that can access the video. If
you set the ID value and video ID value like this, a
link will be created and you
can now access the video. Next, the
video length is a bit complicated. If you
look at the video length value here, the value is a bit unique. It's
designated as PT 11 S. Then, this is an abbreviation
for peri of time. This
is a specific format that expresses the length. It
means 11 seconds. 11s
men and 1 hour.  10 minutes
10 seconds is expressed as 1h 10m 11S.
So, if you
just put the duration value like this, it's
not a format that's easy for us to see, right? So, it would be
good to change the format. When you change it, you can use the
X expression after replaying and
specify the format you want to change and
change it to the format you want.
Here, X is a
grammar that can express a text pattern.
Using that grammar, we
can specify the part we want and use the
specified part to capture it and
use it elsewhere,
or, as in the current case,
use it to modify the value to a different value. If
you need an explanation of the basic structure related to X, I recommend that you
refer to the X video that I covered previously.
After you understand the basic concepts to some extent, when you actually use it,
you can use the Choichi PT to explain the structure you want in
detail and create an X and
use it. I also created an X in advance.
So I'll
use the X that I created to set it.
The X looks a bit complicated.
So, I've set it up like this. Once.
Then let's run once and get the video.
Since this is definitely using the official API, the speed is very
fast. Since we put in a slip once, if you
assume there is no slip, you
can see that it is all executed in almost 1 second. And
since we did a bulk update, we
only have one operation now. But
all 50 videos were imported into the sheet.
Yes, up to 50 videos were
imported. It is importing information well,
but one thing that is
regrettable is that when we collect API data,
as I mentioned earlier, we can only
import up to 50 video IDs at a time.
But for example, if I am
obsessed with Baby Monster and
want to collect all the videos on this channel at once, what
should I do? If you
want to import more than 50 videos like me, you have to
use what the next page token knows. This
next page
token means that YouTube allows you to
import up to 50 videos at once, but on the
next page, you have to
set a separate key value to import from 51 to 100 and
return it.  Here, if you
look at the API that gets the video ID,
there's a value called Next Page Token. If you access it with the key value,
we can get the next 50 video list.
So this
Next Page Token's value
will change every time. If you get 50 and then the next
50, there will be a
different value for the Next Page Token in the ret.
So you need to
always get this and use it again to get the
next list value and
loop. So I
'll explain how to set it up.
To set this up, I
'll add one more http mode. I'll
add one more and put it in.
And the reason I'm putting it in like this is that if you
look at the http tool that gets the video ID,
there's a value called Total Tr in the page info.
This is the total number of videos. So
before looping, I'll
check this first. I
added one more module. So
why do I need to check this? We need to
know how many videos there are in total so we
can set how many times we'll loop.
So check this first.  And
then
before the loop, I'm going to do one more setting. I'm
going to set one barrier. Set set variable and I'm going to
create something called a next page token. I'm going to
create something that the next page token knows. Right now,
we still have a module to get the video ID value at
the back.
So there's no value yet.
So I'm going to empty it with an empty string for now. I'm going to
empty it and then I'm going to
get it here. The module in front is
just for checking the number of videos.
Next, I'm going to
set a repeater module to run the loop at the back.
I'm going to set a repeater. What this repeater does is,
there's a part behind this repeater. It
repeats the module several times.
How many times do you want to repeat it?
For example, if it's 1 now and repeat 3, it will
repeat three times like 1 2 3. If you
look at the advance here, you
can also set the step. What is the step? If you
set the step to 1, it becomes 1 2 3. If you
set the step to 2, it
increases like 1 3 5.  It works.
We just set it to 1 and
repeat. We will specify how many times it
should be repeated based on the number of videos.
Ah, we
need to get the number of videos, so I will
repeat this once more.
Unlink it and repeat only the first part.
Then, the
number of videos appears in the page info in the data.
Reconnect it and now the
total ret value appears in the page info. Okay,
420 1 is the total ret. Results
per page. So now, if we
divide it by 50, set the operator and
select divide like this.
If this is 88, for example, it will repeat eight times.
But if we do not
have 450 and have a video base of more than 400, the
number may come out like 8.2 8.3.
In that case, we need to get the remaining videos, so we
need to repeat it once more.
So when you set it like that, you can round it up.
Li means
rounding up. 8.2m
Just make it 9. If you
do it like this.
You can set it to repeat as many times as you want.
Now that the repeater setting is
complete,
add one more query string to the http module.
If you go into the list of playlist items, there
is a parameter that the page token knows. If
we put the next page token ID here, we
can get the next ID list.
So we need to set this up and put it in. But
when we put this value in,
we created a variable, but
this is the MT string.
So we need to create
a new next page token that we will actually use in this loop. We will
do something called get valable here. We
will get the variable called next page token. And we will put it in here. We
will put the next page token that we got with get barrier. We
put the value that we got. But at first,
when we created the variable, we will get this value that does
not have the MT string.
So since we
put that in, it
will be set the same as if we did not put it in. So we
will just get all the first ID values. But when we get it, this
next page token value.  I'll get it.
Then you can update this.
After the sleep, I'll add
one more ad module here. And I'll
update the barrier again to
update the next page token value.
And here, you can
get the next page token value from the module you recently got.
You can set it like this. Then,
what happens now is that the
next page token that was received by returning the API is
saved here. Then, the saved value is
looped, right? So,
after saving it here, we
'll update 50 once. And the loop is looped and comes back, and
here, we
get the next page token value as get barrier. At this time,
since we updated the next page token value, we
get this new value. Then, we'll
get the 50 video IDs after the 50 that were previously got as a module again.
After getting that, we'll get the next page token after those 50.
And then, we'll update the
videos for the 50 that were newly got. And when the
loop is
looped again, the newly created next page
token is used.  This is how you update the variable, and
then you put it here.
So, you can update the
next page token
value and get video information by looping like this. If you
set it like this, there are
only 50 now, but
let's run this again. Then, 50 wo
n't be executed at first because we've
already brought 50. But
from then on, they'll pass and be brought. Now,
the loop keeps going.
Yes, it's been run six times. Now that it's all done, let's
take a look at the sheet. If you look at the sheet, you can
see that all 427 video values ​​have been collected like this, from the first video to the most recent video.
Today, we looked at how to collect YouTube video data
for free without coding by utilizing the official YouTube API in Make.
Since it's data provided directly by official APIs like YouTube API, it has the advantage of being able to collect data with high accuracy, stability, and
speed.
Of course, services do
n't want to collect a large amount of their stored data.
So, there's usually a set API limit.
Nevertheless, as you can see, you can collect
all the video information of a specific channel in a day.  The API provides a
generous limit to the extent that you can collect.
Also, even if it is
not YouTube, it provides an official API. If
Make does not support the module,
check the official API document as you saw in today's video,
understand the API structure first, and then
use the http mode in Make to
connect the API and use it. You can
collect and use data from various services without coding.
Therefore,
before considering web crawling for data collection, it would be good to first check
whether the service in question provides an official API.
Then,
I will come back
with a method to build a system that can increase productivity. If
you are interested, please subscribe and like and set notifications.
This was Mr. Balja of Citizen Education.
[Music]